--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This email newsletter was sent to you in graphical HTML format.
If you're seeing this version, your email program prefers plain text emails.
You can read the original version online:
http://ymlp.com/zZlbZu
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To unsubscribe, visit:
http://www.sjnoc.org/e_newsletter/enews_registration.htm
 

NOC NEWS

Nihonmachi Outreach Committee (NOC)

www.sjnoc.org 



33rd Annual Day of Remembrance 

"The Changing Face of America"

Sunday, February 17, 2012
5:30pm-7:30pm
San Jose Buddhist Church Betsuin
640 North Fifth Street,
San Jose, CA

Free and open to the public

  
The 2013 San Jose Day of Remembrance commemorates the signing of 
Executive Order 9066, which led to the forced incarceration of 
120,000 people of Japanese descent, two-thirds of whom were American 
citizens. The event will also recognize the 25th anniversary of the 
Civil Liberties Act of 1988. This landmark legislation stated that
“a grave injustice was done to both citizens and permanent residents 
of Japanese ancestry by the evacuation, relocation, and internment of 
civilians during World War II.”

To many within the Japanese American community, the Civil Liberties
Act of 1988 demonstrated that America can be a great nation. America
can look back in painful introspection and admit our past wrongs. But
because our families and our community have been the recipients of the
government’s apology and redress, many of us also believe that we
bear a special responsibility to uphold the lessons learned from
Executive Order 9066.

The Civil Liberties Act of 1988 stated that the government’s actions
“were motivated largely by racial prejudice, wartime hysteria, and a
failure of political leadership.”The reference to “prejudice”
strikes a special chord with many Japanese Americans, leading us to
believe that we must not be silent when we see our neighbors, friends,
classmates, colleagues, and various communities become the targets of
discrimination and violence. The 2013 San Jose Day of Remembrance
program reflects this belief.

The 2013 Day of Remembrance program, The Changing Face of America,
acknowledges the changing composition of America. Many political
observers have stated that the 2012 election results demonstrated a
dramatic shift in the demographics of the country, citing the
increasing influence of particular groups, such as Latinos, Asian
Americans, African Americans, women, and younger Americans. The
election also revealed some progressive gains in LGBT equality, the
great civil rights struggle of this decade.

Accompanying this dramatic demographic and attitudinal shift is an
increased risk of backlash, intolerance, ignorance, and violence. 
Some vocal segments of society have challenged or do not accept
President Barack Obama’s American origins and his Christian
faith; the Muslim American community has been under special scrutiny
since the terrorist attacks of 9/11; and some groups, like the Sikh
community, have been the target of violent hate crimes.

 
The Department of Justice has stated that it has “investigated over
800 incidents since 9/11 involving violence, threats, vandalism and
arson against Arab-Americans, Muslims, Sikhs, South-Asian Americans
and other individuals perceived to be of Middle Eastern origin.”

For the first time in San Jose Day of Remembrance history, a
representative from the Sikh community, Simran Kaur, the advocacy
director of the Sikh Coalition, will speak at the annual event.  
The Sikh community has been a target of violence in the post-9/11 
world, including the recent temple massacre in Oak Creek, Wisconsin; 
the 2011 double murder in Elk Grove, California; and the 2006 
attempted murder in Santa Clara, California.

 
Other featured speakers will be Molly Kitajima, a Japanese Canadian
who was incarcerated by the Canadian government during World War
II;Congressman Mike Honda; and a representative from the Muslim
American community. The program also includes a performance from
internationally acclaimed San Jose Taiko, a candle-lighting 
ceremony and remembrance, and the traditional candlelight procession 
through historic Japantown. JAMsj will also have a special exhibit 
on display at the event. For more information, email info@sjnoc.org 
or visit www.sjnoc.org.


-------------------------

The Day of Remembrance is an event that aims to bring different
communities together in order to build trust, respect, and
understanding among all people and to renew our pledge to fight for
equality, justice, and peace. Please plan on attending to help us all
remember what happened and ensure that such injustices never occur
again.

 
The Sikh Coalition  was born in the aftermath of bigotry, violence 
and discrimination against the Sikh population following the 
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The Sikh Coalition 
is a community-based organization that works towards
the realization of civil and human rights for all people. 
In particular, the organization works towards a world where
Sikhs may freely practice and enjoy their faith while 
fostering strong relations with their local community wherever
they may be.

 

 

San Jose Nihonmachi Outreach Committee (NOC)
P.O. Box 2293, San Jose, CA  95109

E-Mail: info@sjnoc.org
Website:  www.sjnoc.org ( http://www.sjnoc.org )

"In the End, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the
silence of our friends."
                                                                          -
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
